美國國會共和黨眾議員湯武帝法尼代表威斯康青州的第七選區在去年12月一場國會聽證會上 帝法尼議員指出許多中國婦女利用美國太平洋屬地被馬里亞納群島的免簽政策到該群島的首都賽班島生孩子孩子一出生 即可獲得美國公民身份他對這樣的濫用行為表示擔憂他隨後在月份加入多名國會共和黨人支持一項終止美國出生公民權的法案最近帝法尼議員還提出多項和中國有關的法律引發關注二月初他提出一項決議案表達國會認為美國應該廢除一個中國政策並恢復與臺灣的正常外交關係二月底他與長年關注中國人權問題的資深共和黨議員克里斯 史密斯聯合提出議案要求取消中國的永久正常貿易關係地位作為美國之間與國會議員對話系列的一部分美國經濟者張佩芝最近專訪了帝法尼眾議員請他就這些議題發表看法李慧琼 李慧琼和他們的姊姊都會成為美國人對於那些V.O.A.-China-Division-Sand-Reporters在這裏是一個非常好的姊姊與中國人的姊姊我告訴你你已經在這裏與我們在這裏與我們在這裏與我們在這裏與我們在這裏與我們在這裏與我們在這裏與我們在這裏與我們在這裏在這裏在這裏在這裏在這裏在這裏在這裏在這裏在這裏在這裏在這裏在這裏在這裏在這裏在這裏在這裏在這裏在這裏在這裏在這裏在這裏在這裏在這裏在這裏在這裏在這裏在這裏在這裏在這裏我唯一可以可以告 People to come in on a visa或是 Without a visa但可以与一位 Baby that is not how this was meant to be我提了嗅击 Secretary Nolme去闻出那位魯坡而且也有 Berthright citizenship索特特特搓手募認書要得到 Congress是否有許多民眾到了你的拜託波?對 我覺得這要有比較多的功試我應許其中的提議在寅內有更多部分的提升如該開始開始但是我非常過分想認得他們做的China has seen U.S. as an adversary for a long time and has spread anti-American propaganda among his citizens. However, in recent years, there are more Chinese migrants coming through the southern border through the Dorian gap or they use Saipen, for example, to get U.S. citizenship. How do you see this paradox? Well, I was two of the Darian gap a few years ago and I saw the incredible number of people from around the world not just China that were coming through the Darian gap getting into the pipeline to America and hopefully we are going to close that off. But it's obvious that China wants to bring people into this country and they're stealing our technology, they're spying on people. I mean, when you think about the Chinese police stations that we found in New York City in places near Meam like Minneapolis, Minnesota and so it's clear that China does not respect our norms and values here in America so therefore we have to hold them to account for that. So let's talk about U.S.-China relations. This relationship has gone through dramatic changes since China entered the WTO in 2001. How do you categorize or how do you describe the current state of U.S.-China relations? How do we get here? Yeah, I think the goodwill of the American people has been abused. When you look at the theft of intellectual property I just mentioned the police stations something that is anathema to the American society. But I believe this goes back to when most favored nation status was given to communist China and that's why I've introduced legislation with Representative Smith from New Jersey to revoke that permanent status and have it be renewed annually. I believe we will get much greater accountability by the communist Chinese government if they have to be good actors on and have this renewed on an annual basis. I think this is one of the most important things that we can do because America is the marketplace that China was trying to get to. We have the largest consumer base and that has led to prosperity for China over the last few decades. I believe they should respect that. They have not. And one way in which we can deal with this is to have an annual renewal for favored nation status. You represent Wisconsin's seventh congressional district. What have the actions taken by China affect people in your district especially on the trade front? I'll give you one example. We grow almost all the ginseng in my district in northern Wisconsin. And the Chinese, the communist Chinese have used this as a weapon in trade negotiations because Wisconsin is such an important state in terms of elections that they've tried to turn the ginseng growers against Republicans against President Trump by saying we're not going to take your ginseng anymore because China took a lot of America's ginseng. It's the best that is produced in the world. And so they've used that. They've used trade specifically in regards to ginseng as a weapon, as a political weapon and that should not be the case. And I'm hoping that the communist Chinese will relent on this now and allow ginseng to be imported into their country once again in the same volumes that they did a decade ago. Do you support imposing tariffs on Chinese good coming to the US? And what are the other urgent steps that the US should be taking to deal with this unfair trade practices? Yeah, I do agree with tariffs. And I like the president's idea of having reciprocal tariffs. If you're going to tariff 25% on a particular product then we're going to tariff 25% on a particular product. We would prefer to just see free trade but it has to be fair trade. And I think there's a couple other things that we watch very closely here in America. We see the abuse of the weaker people in Western China. That is unacceptable in a free society and that should not be happening. We do not want companies importing goods that are using slave labor. We haven't had a full accounting of what happened in the Wuhan lab with the coronavirus being... It appears almost certain that it came from that lab and caused incredible damage to not just America but countries around the world. We need a full accounting in regards to those things and China needs to provide that. Taiwan is one of the biggest potential flashpoint in U.S.-China relations. You recently reintroduced legislation or a resolution expressing it is a sense of the Congress to resume formal diplomatic relations with Taiwan and put an end to one China policy. Could you please take us through the thinking behind this proposal? Yeah, when I first came into Congress nearly five years ago this is one of the issues having been to Taiwan previously. I thought why would we treat them as a pariah this country that is modernized? It's free. They believe in democracy and so I believe the one China policy is a relic of the 20th century and we should take our foreign policy into the 21st century. So I introduced the bill and I think I did it. I was all on my own the first time that I introduced it into Congress. Now you look at the last session of Congress. There were 50 members that joined me in this and you're seeing in this continue to grow on a bipartisan basis that we should recognize Taiwan. Communist China has never had possession of Taiwan. It's never been the case that China said Taiwan. Taiwan should be treated as a free democratic country which it is and America can lead the way by ending the one China policy from way back in 1979. What is your response to the possibility that any efforts by the United States to resume formal relations with Taiwan would draw a strong response from China and possibly in the form of military aggression towards Taiwan? America should never shrink from bullies. The rest of the world should never shrink from bullies from countries that are trying to take away another country's freedom and America has always stood strong. The greatest danger to Taiwan, to China and the rest of the world is for America to stand silent and say we will continue to accept this one China policy that should not stand. So the most important thing we can do is we in America believe in peace through strength. President Trump believes in that. We need to be strong on this front and say we recognize the free and democratic state of Taiwan and that it should be recognized by other countries around the world as its own nation. In recent years, it is often said that China under the leadership of current Chinese president Xi Jinping has become more repressive at home and more aggressive abroad. Do you see this assessment and what do you think the US should respond to the challenges? America needs to stand strong. Let's go back to the 20th century. One of the most successful presidents in terms of foreign policy was President Reagan. When he stood up to the Soviet Union and he said tear down this wall within a year or two, that's exactly what happened because those communist countries were built on a house of cards. Communist China, I believe, is very similar. We need to stand up to them and say, you know, if you choose to run your country that way, you know, go ahead and do it but we do not agree with you and we do not accept when you try to come and steal our intellectual property. When you set up police stations in our cities in America to surveil your own citizens when you release a virus like the coronavirus when you're conducting experimentation that could be very dangerous for humanity. When you're stifling your own people, when you're threatening your neighbors like Taiwan it's very important for America to stand up to that because when America leads like that the rest of the world follows and we will do the right thing when America is strong. What do you see the US-China relations heading in the next decade? If we continue with the policies of President Trump, I think we have the potential to have good relations. You know, maybe Xi Jinping chooses not to give up communism and that's how he wants to rule his country and that would be very unfortunate but I think we end up with better relations when we have a strong America. But I know one thing. As long as America is strong and America takes care of its own business that we produce things in America that we have a strong foreign policy that we have energy independence that we secure our borders that we have a open free America. If we have those things America is going to do just fine. So lastly, is there any message you would like to send to our audience in China? We hope we want you to be a free people just like we are here in America. In America is not perfect. We don't always do things right. But as we saw with the election in November the American people got it right. They said we want to have an America that has a secure border that we reduce inflation and that the American people can prosper that we have energy independence that we make things in America that we have a strong foreign policy work with those countries that want to have a free world. We are ready to work with people at any time to do that. And we stand on the side of the people of China who want to throw off the shackles of communism we stand firmly with you every single day. Thank you so much, Congressman Tiffany, for your time. Thank you. It's great to join Voice of America today.